well joining us here on set is Muhammad
masri he's a political analyst and also
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies hi again
Muhammad um uh when you look at the
Israeli delegation that's in Qatar
attending the ceasefire talks do you
think that they have enough of a mandate
to be able to move the negotiations
forward I don't think the issue is is
the Mandate at all um I think the issue
is what does Israel want uh out of this
negotiation versus what Hamas wants out
of this negotiation as we've been
discussing Hamas wants permanent
ceasefire they want an end to the
violence in Gaza and Israel wants some
assurance that it's going to be allowed
to to continue that so the question is
and has been for many weeks how do we
reconcile those two diverging uh
positions is it possible to say who's
who's negotiating from a sort of a
stronger position a position of strength
well I would say that Israel's
negotiating from a position of strength
based on based on the fact that they're
supported by the United States I mean
the United States holds all the leverage
they are the one entity that could end
all this tomorrow with a with a phone
call um but which has been unwilling to
do so so if they have support from the
United States and there isn't you know
any sort of consequence for what um uh
for what they're doing in Gaza then um
they're free to either negotiate a deal
that works for them right that meets
their conditions or continue continue
fighting much is being said about these
divisions uh between Biden and
Netanyahu are there enough to make a
difference to to what's happening on the
ground in Gaza well I think we have to
keep a close eye on it I don't want to
belittle some of the differences that
we've seen emerge in recent weeks and
and and how the US has sort of uh ramped
up some of its rhetoric on uh Israel
against Israel critical of Israel but
I'm much more interested in what the
United States is doing than what the
United States is saying they are issuing
these sort of U verbal slaps on the
wrist from time time to time we've seen
that from Biden from blinkin and from
others in the US Administration but
until the US actually shows that it's
willing to change course until they're
actually uh willing to demonstrate that
they're going to implement this kind of
Redline policy that they're going to for
instance stop supplying Israel for
weapons then I think it's just more of
the same okay and and speaking of uh the
weapon sales we we now hear from Canada
that it's saying that it will hold
future armed sales to Israel uh there
was a non-binding vote that was held in
the House of Commons how how significant
of a development is this I think it's
important I think what we have to
remember is that while this is an
Israeli genocide uh plausible genocide
on Gaza and on the Palestinian people um
it is one that is has been supported by
Western governments like Canada and
increasingly Western governments are
becoming uh uncomfortable um having
their reputations uh smeared by what is
probably going to be ruled a genocide
here in the next few years at the at the
at the highest court in the world and so
you're seeing countries now like Canada
trying to distance themselves they want
to be able to say well look we we took a
stand at at a at a particular Point uh
in time and so from that standpoint I
think it's significant it also signals
to Israel that um their time could be
running out they don't have an unlimited
supply of time to carry out this war
okay Muhammad thank thank you so
much or